you know one of the things I found
really fascinating about generally sales
and marketing is that um people are uh
so afraid of rejection
and yeah and I think it's selfish I
think it's really selfish to be afraid
of that rejection because if you believe
in what you're selling
um then you have to ask yourself is my
30 seconds of rejection feeling more
important to me than the pain I might be
resolving for this person over the next
few Decades of their life
oh
[Music]
hello everyone watching and listening
today I'm speaking with serial
entrepreneur and public speaker Eric Ed
Meads we discuss this early experiences
with homelessness the extent and
detriment of alcoholism and illness that
preoccupied his father the changes you
can make to restructure your
physiological responses right especially
to fear the relationship between trust
and sales and marketing General
communication and the world of
possibility
that opens up to you if you embrace the
unknown the potentially dangerous and
above all that which calls to you
so we met Mexico yeah Puebla right we
were there for their Festival of ideas
yeah right we went to an old library
afterwards which was very cool it was
the oldest library I think in North
America I think in all the Americas yeah
it was super cool building you know what
was fascinating is that they had no
electricity in there and no climate
control and millions of dollars and more
than money the value of all those books
but the building was built like well
enough to do the climate control the
humidity control in the 1500s yeah
fascinating yeah yeah that's for sure
that was a good trip that was a cool
City and a good Festival yeah yeah so I
was looking at your biography today I
figured we might as well walk through it
um it said uh let's start with this well
living in Canada your family was you
were born into an apartheid era South
Africa and then immigrated with your
family to Canada but he said well living
in Canada your childhood quickly became
what can only be described as a roller
coat of experience roller coaster ride
of experience
including a period of homelessness in
Northern Canada at the vulnerable age of
15. Northern Canada is not a good place
to be homeless actually I would I would
put to you and I think you'll you'll be
with me on this it's a great place to be
homeless because it uh it forces
resolution very quickly so what happened
at 15. you know um my uh my dad and my
mom split up when I was very young and
and it was a very good thing they did in
my dad was um at that stage uh having a
let's say an irresponsible relationship
with alcohol and
um and so they had split up and then
he'd sobered up
and my mom and I had a disagreement a
teenage disagreement at some stage that
resulted in me rebelling and going to
live with my father and so off to you
know to live with my father after all
these years I'll finally get to live
with my father and then he found this
rebellious teenager very difficult to
live with in his two-bedroom apartment
and sent me to boarding school and the
boarding school that I went to was one
of the greatest Gifts of my life but it
was also
very demanding like you know at 13 years
old we trained to do a snowshoe race and
it was a 26 Mile Snowshoe race we're 13.
it's not a relay race it's 26 actual
miles snowshoes are very difficult very
heavy and it's minus 40 outside
completely different gate yeah it's a
very different thing and that's just a
sample of what was tough there but the
bigger thing that was going on at the
school is the school was beginning to
wake up to the realities of being in
Canada you know they used corporal
punishment and and and you know very
um harsh winter programs and they were
starting to get a lot of flack for being
too hard on kids and so the school was
trying to
transition to be more acceptable I
suppose and during that transition my
class in particular was in the wrong
space we got the we got the worst of
both sides of that and so halfway
through grade 10 I made the decision to
leave
to leave the school and my dad disagreed
with this decision quite quite heavily
and uh but as I actually you know
control my body they were not able to
get my body to the school and I I I just
refused to go and then my dad refused to
let me just stay in his home and so my
response to that was to walk out the
door into Edmonton and I was 15 years
old and it's funny about a week later my
dad track me down wherever I was in the
city and and he he told me um that I had
apparently won a two thousand dollar
this is a long time ago that's a lot of
money two thousand dollar uh bursary or
anniversary for leadership skills or
something the school had acknowledged me
for and he never told me that before I
don't know how they you know that had
slipped his mind in my I mean it might
have been good to know at the beginning
of the year but at that point he he
offered me 500 in cash if I would go
back to the school and the other fifteen
hundred dollars of my bursary he would
give me in cash once I finished grade
10. and this was in what year 1986.
right so this is about equivalent of
about ten thousand dollars yeah it's a
lot of money and I said no I said no I I
I had strong conviction principles about
why I didn't want to go back and and um
and I would put to you that had it been
summer or had it been Los Angeles and
had it been easy
to be homeless then I don't know what
would have happened uh I don't know what
direction I would have gone in but that
wasn't a possibility it was minus 20
minus 30 sometimes minus 40. like I I
had to be smarter than that so at first
I you know a little bit of Couchsurfing
where until my friend's parents ran out
of patience with that yeah and then one
day there was a video arcade uh um
called games people play
and not inside in in in near the
University of Alberta and I and one of
my friends Dad ran the place and and I
walked up to him one day and I can't
imagine I was 15 and I must have looked
13 or 12. I was a kid and I walked up to
and I said you look really tired and he
goes I am and I said I can fix that for
you and he goes what do you mean and I
go well I you know I think part of your
tiredness is you're here opening this
place for us for at 10 in the morning
and then you're here closing it for us
at three in the morning or something so
and he goes I'm not hiring anybody and I
said I'm not looking for a job I said
but if you let me sleep in here at night
if you let me sleep in here at night I
will take over for you at say six in the
evening so you can have dinner with your
family and I'll keep the place running
smooth and I'll close it for you three
and you don't have to pay me and as he
had no problem with violating the Child
Welfare you know the laws he and I
agreed to that deal and that was you
know the beginning of my sort of
emancipation it's the beginning of my
saying I'm responsible for my existence
and I did that until
um for several months until uh so that
deal worked out that deal worked out
really well I you know um how did you
manage to maintain order in the arcade
you know um it was uh
it was an interesting thing as a kid you
know back then you had to pay for video
games you know not like now uh you know
to actually put money in the machines
but if you had the keys to the machines
you didn't have to do that and so I I
played a lot of video games you know it
kind of was very distracting and I have
to say that as computers came out I was
in that generation
we only really got computers in like
grade 12. so we were that generation
that was like going to be left behind
but I wasn't left behind because I had
been like kind of one with the computers
like when video games and computers the
same thing the logic is the same so that
time was very very useful to me later in
my life because I was never afraid of
computers I was never afraid of AI for
example I I've been playing it since I
was a kid well that's a good point I I'm
I'm afraid of it but willing also to use
it not if you if you were 15 and you
look 13 what did the other kids that
were in the arcade listen to you at
night like that's what I was thinking
about in terms of order it's funny
nobody's ever asked me that before but I
can tell you my school gave me a two
thousand dollar bursary for leadership
skills maybe there was something
inherent maybe there was there was
something I mean I had a lot of respect
with my friends at that stage oddly I
was the relationship Council counselor
for everybody if somebody liked somebody
or their relationship I couldn't I had
no understanding of of
women girls in my life I had no for me I
couldn't do it but I was very good at
handling that kind of stuff for other
people so I think that I had a sort of
like coach attitude anyway and so yeah I
I had the respect I see I see well let's
go right back to the beginning your
family moved to Canada from South Africa
in the 70s yeah and how old were you I
became Canadian at eight we kind of went
back and forth a few times before I
finally became assistant and do you have
any memories of South Africa oh yeah and
I mean I I feel in many ways I feel just
as much South African as I do Canadian I
I've maintained a very my family's been
in South Africa they were Wagon Train
people we're talking fourth records like
they were original South African
settlers so I have a very strong
attachment to the country and very
strong memories from childhood and
beyond my my mother's Grand my
grandmother's grandfather was the
minister in Parliament in in the I think
it's called foxcrad but he was the
minister in Paul Kruger's cabinet that
proposed the formation of the Kruger
National Park which is in my mind one
one of the most important pieces of land
on the planet and on the other side my
my dad's great-grandfather uh TF Dreyer
was the uh archaeologist who discovered
the floor spad skull which is until very
recently the oldest Homo sapiens skull
ever found so I I had a very deep deep
history there right right right so why
did your family move to Canada
you know um
you know it's a funny thing my my
grandmother had this little dog
um a little Schnauzer type thing and it
was the most racist little dog you can
imagine like it was terrible you know
you'd go to the gas station and the guys
would come to fill up the gas station
and they were of course black and they
would fill up the car and this is
apartheid era South Africa and the dog
would go ballistic but can you blame the
dog I mean is it the dog's fault that
it's a racist no it's not I mean it was
raised that way it was simply picking up
on the fears and racism and that my
grandparents had in their life
so then that always made me question
because my grandfather was a racist like
a serious racist he wasn't a white
supremacist he had an order of things
but he was clearly racist but is that
his fault if it's not the dog's fault is
it his fault maybe not he was brought up
that way but for some reason my parents
they didn't like it they saw it they
didn't like it they were opposed to it
and um and they they became involved in
the ANC and and my dad was studying law
at Vitz University and uh he became an
anthropologist do you know he he really
wanted to be because of his grandfather
but his parents were insistent then he
went to law school so he went to vets
and then he went to McGill here in
Montreal and then he went uh then he
went to Dao and taught law as a
professor at Dalhousie in Halifax but
Underneath It All what he really wanted
to do was sciences and so when he
finally kind of left the law that's when
I gave you a copy of this I wrote this
book yeah book I forgot about it very
good book yeah that book details out the
what would you say the depredations of
human beings over about a fifteen
thousand year period the fact that we
were integrally involved with the
disappearance
disappearance of megafauna yeah
everywhere around the world but
particularly in the Western Hemisphere
right where animals hadn't adapted to
the presence of human Predators because
there's a huge collapse of megafauna
species about 15 between 15 000 and 10
000 years ago in in the western
hemisphere which pretty much corresponds
with the arrival of two-legged Hunters
right who took everything the mammoths
the base the big mammals the after
having got rid gotten rid of the uh
giant tortoises your your father writes
about that very good book by the way
yeah I enjoyed I enjoyed reading I'm
glad I thought you would like it it's
funny about a week after megafauna I
think it's that's right that's right
yeah
megafuna.com incidentally yeah yeah well
and for people who are watching
listening if you're interested in such
things megaphone is an extremely
interesting book it's a jaunt through
um prehistory on the biological side but
also an analysis of the relationship
between human hunting capacity and our
particular ecological niche which is
well you might say which is stunningly
effective Hunter because we hunt
together in groups and virtually no
animal all animals had evolved all sorts
of protective organisms in relationship
to other animals but none of those were
particularly useful against human beings
well you know it's interesting
um sometimes when people uh debate the
megaphone Extinction human hunting kind
of thing they're like but then why are
there still megaphone in Africa yeah and
it doesn't make sense if humans started
there but it's exactly that because they
they were the frog in the hot water
humans evolved that Innovative capacity
in Africa those animals have natural
fear avoidance of elephants in Africa if
you're I've spent a lot of time in
Africa if you're walking in the bush as
I've done many times and I I came for
example once walking down into a
riverbed and there are 14 Lions sitting
in the river well those Lions they're
afraid of you Grizzlies are not afraid
of you right right you know if a Grizzly
is afraid of you it's because it learned
it in its Consciousness in its
experience of humans but it doesn't have
that DNA thing and and so that book has
actually been a big part of even my
journey because
um you know my my sort of quest into say
health and nutrition that kind of stuff
really stem from my dad's fascinating
with human uh human history so that book
that's been a good did you establish a
good relationship with your father after
having things
how long did that take after after the
the events of your of your adolescence
you know um
you know a very slowly and very quickly
you know it it was one of those things
it would happen in fits and starts I
mean in one sense it was never really
that bad it was just brutally honest you
know it was it was not it was not I mean
I I would say that uh you know during
his when they I think in alcoholism we
talk about a practicing alcoholic I'm
like I don't know what they're
practicing they think it's good enough
at that already but during that window I
would say that at that time there would
have been say you know language or or
behavior that you might have thought of
as abusive but then after that the
Discord between us I wouldn't have
called it abusive I just would have
called it direct it was like we we would
disagree on things and strongly and we
had our opinions and
um but we still had respect you know a
lot of respect and so that was very easy
for us to to rebuild uh um a friendship
upon and so we've we've been very close
pretty much ever since even even in the
month when I went back to him at now 16
I had turned 16 I went to him and I said
look I think you get at this point
you're not going to win this I'm not
going back to school but if you don't
let me move back in with you the school
will not let me go to school they
wouldn't let me go to school without a
parent signing off on something actually
I was just shy of my 16th birthday and
if I waited any longer I'd lose that
whole Academic Year
and he found my argument convincing and
allowed me to move back in and uh sign
my school paperwork and let me finish
grade 10 and despite having Missed You
know despite missing three months of
that year or four months of that so did
you go back to school at that not at
that school
and I did finish that and pretty much
from that point on uh my dad and I you
know began rebuilding that relationship
but I'd say that relationship was forged
by my dad taking us on uh you know canoe
trips in and unlock lorange and and uh
you know it's taking us up to
Yellowknife and and taking us into uh
Into the Wilderness I think that even
those things formed the the foundation
of why we're we have the relationship
even we have today okay so let's go back
to when you're eight you said that that
was when you became a Canadian citizen
okay so what is your family doing in
Canada at that point if your dad is in
in the legal business yeah then and your
mom my mom at that stage um she was
really a mom and then she wanted to go
and finish her own education so she went
to uh dell as well she went to Dao and
uh did a master's in social work uh so I
had my dad the at that point practicing
alcoholic lawyer or law professor and my
mom these you know studying social work
but going back to citizenship that was
kind of interesting because you see
my brother sponsored us for our
citizenship ultimately because he was we
we apparently We snuck my pregnant
mother into the country and she versed
my brother in Montreal and so on that
basis we then made our bid for Canadian
citizenship and I have vague memories of
this but I know the family story we're
facing the judge you know we at that I
don't know how it works these days but
you actually had to prove that you knew
some things about Canada and so the
judge is asking my dad a bunch of
questions trivia questions about Canada
do you guys are you guys really here and
he says to my dad um how many provinces
are there in Canada and my dad says nine
and the judge goes and the judge it
turned out the judge is a frequency or
not Afrikaans he's from South Africa but
he's British and we're Afrikaans for
boers turns out that our relatives would
have fired at each other in the Boer
were so weird you know two generations
later he's swearing Us in for
citizenship in a new country anyway so
he says to my dad um I'm going to let
you take another shot at that question
and my dad goes well and this is 1978
not too long after the flq and all that
stuff that was happening in early Canada
and my dad goes well fine 10 if you want
to count Quebec but it doesn't seem like
they want to be here
which set up a really fun conversation
the the exam was over and we were
welcomed into the country
yeah so so you're now your father was a
law professor where at down at Dale and
what what branch of law did he teach
about and practice i i a product
liability I think was a big part of
where he went uh um and then after that
he practiced a lot in contract law
um uh employment law that sort of stuff
and when he when he went into practice
after
um after sobering up and so forth then
he uh mostly worked in in you know
business structuring contract law
employment law that sort of thing and
you're where was your parents
relationship when you were about eight
at that time was it starting to shake
already yeah yeah and was that alcohol
related it was yeah yeah my my dad
um my dad says there were two causes of
his alcoholism one was that my mother
used to like to wash her hair with beer
you know as the tradition was and she
would only ever use half a beer he had
to finish the other house so he likes to
blame her for that and Adam and Eve type
situation
um but the but I think the the real uh
uh cause was that time you know at 20
something years old being asked to teach
law in a branch of law he didn't learn
despite graduating first in his class
was stressful for him and he found that
again half a beer would take the edge
off before his lectures yeah well
alcohol is an extraordinarily pernicious
drug and if you're inclined towards it
you can be inclined towards it because
you're sensitive to its anxiety reducing
Properties or you can be sensitive to it
because it enhances social communication
or because it produces a cycle motor
high like cocaine or all of those at
once and if you're particularly
predisposed to alcoholism you can
experience all three at once I had a
friend in Montreal
Frank Irvin great old guy looked like
Ernest Hemingway he had a monkey Farm on
Saint Kitts and him and his uh his woman
Roberta
oh I can't remember Roberta's last name
she was quite a piece of work too a real
cool person they had this monkey Ranch
on Saint Kitts and they used to go down
there and study the effects of alcohol
on green monkeys which five percent of
whom would drink Tacoma on first
exposure and they had videotapes of
these damn monkeys drinking and it
looked like a frat party you know and
about five percent of them on first
exposure would drink Tacoma and those
were the monkeys that had a biological
predisposition to alcohol to alcoholism
and alcohol is a really bad drug you
know it's 50 percent of murders take
place in an alcohol-fueled environment
either the victim or the perpetrator or
both is drunk it's it's almost the sole
cause of domestic abuse it's almost the
sole cause of so-called date rape if you
dig into criminal Behavior deeply enough
well hell you don't have to dig much at
all before you find alcohol it's also
the only drug we know that actually
makes people more aggressive and not not
merely because they're not merely
because they don't know what they're
doing we did experiments at McGill
showing that if you took drunk people
and put them in a competitive
environment where they could be
aggressive and had them keep track of
their aggression so they were actually
conscious of it they became more
aggressive even rather than less so yeah
alcohol's bad news and it can turn
perfectly good people into into quite
the quite the impulsive and dim-witted
monsters so well if you give people that
massive boost of sugar and then suppress
their inhibitions yeah that's gonna
happen I was 21 years old in Prince
George and I had a night like that and I
I mean it wasn't terrible I just woke up
in the morning you know praying at the
porcelain altar I was making that deal
with God if you just make me feel better
I'll I'll stop this yeah do it anymore
and uh and then I didn't uh-huh I
haven't had alcohol since oh really
since you were 21. I quit the drinking
when I was 27 you know I mean northern
albertan culture was pretty damn hard
drinking culture like most northern
places and uh a lot number of my friends
ended up alcoholic you know and and well
all the people that I was in high school
with and in college with were extremely
hard Drinkers and I drank quite a lot
till I was 27 and then I found that I
couldn't well first of all my life was
taking a pretty professional turn and
second I found that there was no bloody
way I could write seriously and think
seriously on an ongoing basis if I was
hungover so and I got married and and I
was going to have kids and I thought
yeah enough of this and so I I had a bit
of I I thought when I was 50 that I
might be able to drink again socially
and I toyed with it for about a year and
found out that I was probably just as
stupid at 50 as I had been like 25 and
decided to dispense with that as to that
too which was
definitely you know I've watched too as
I've gone around the world I've I've met
very very many people in many many
social occasions and I because I don't
drink anything at all now if I go out
and watch people drinking it makes
everybody stupid and fuzzy minded and
you know the problem is is when you're
drinking you think you're cool but you
know you have those same delusions that
that Homer Simpson's friend Barney had
when he was drinking that you're this
kind of you know elegant and and
sophisticated comedian and it just makes
everybody stupid I would argue that the
real problem is that it does that yeah
well that's the first drink does that my
dad tells this uh you know he's he I
hope I get the family story right but
he's a kid of 17 or 18 and he's kind of
struggling at that point with school and
he goes to a family function and he's
got that one Uncle who's a real jerk
yeah and the uncle pins him down at the
dining room table and he says to him he
goes so uh baz
um are your grades uh a function of your
inability to commit to work or are you
just stupid
and it was such a nasty question and my
dad immediately
um you know he blushed and you know
people who blush know that they're
blushing and then that causes more
blessing which of course causes the eye
watering and he just it was a
devastating moment for him and then
about two weeks later he and his dad are
sitting and his dad and unfortunately
was it was an alcoholic and you know uh
didn't live there very long as a
consequence but they're sitting on the
on the deck having a little bit of a
beer and then he goes in and uh and and
Uncle does the same thing so we solved a
great mystery are you stupid or lazy and
my dad did not blush and my dad said you
know I would entertain your question if
I thought there was any sincerity in all
of us I recognize that it's just through
your own smallness you're attempting to
hurt me I'm gonna let it go and then at
that point my dad's like it's socially
responsible not to go out without at
least a beer aha right right right right
yeah yeah well it definitely it
definitely is a con confidence enhancing
substances especially sensitive to that
damn right it's an illusion yeah it it
uh
you know when I say that as someone who
quite enjoyed drinking I mean I had
quite the blast as a consequence of it
but I also noticed that
especially when I was in Montreal and
starting to grow up let's say and and
take on serious responsibilities that
every time I had done something or said
something that I regretted
it was when I was drinking and I thought
at one point
maybe I don't want to live a life where
I'm continually or even sporadically
um wishing that I hadn't said or done
something you know and I'm very much
unlikely to do that if I'm sober and
clear-headed that's exactly what
happened to me in Prince George it was
exactly that conversation with myself
and initially I decided six months off
and I just never went back to it yeah
yeah yeah well you know the other thing
I think that happened too is I started
drinking when I was pretty young like 14
you know and I I had a certain degree of
social anxiety I mean I'm very
extroverted but uh well I think
everybody has a certain degree of social
anxiety when they're like 14 because
like what the hell do you know you know
and that's probably exacerbated around
girls and uh
that alcohol because it enhances
sociability and also suppresses anxiety
is a good social anxiety medication but
the problem is is you don't learn how to
conduct yourself as a sober individual
in Social circumstances and you learn
very rapidly to rely on the Alcohol not
only as a social lubricant but as the
basis of your social behavior and I
would say you know to young people who
are watching listening that's a stupid
plan you should learn how to be in a
social group with others When You're
Sober so that you bloody well know how
to do it especially if you're planning
to do anything even vaguely serious and
responsible with your life which is you
know probably something you should be
doing a good friend of mine exactly my
age within within a few months um I quit
at 21 he quit at 31 and we were both 34
or 35 we were out with some friends and
we're dancing and having fun and I'm
just me and I'm actually more
introverted so I'm not super outgoing
but I'm still having a great time I'm
dancing I'm having fun and and he comes
up to me goes how do you do that he goes
I don't I can't do that now without the
alcohol because I learned to do it with
out the alcohol
in a world filled with uncertainties
it's crucial to be ready for whatever
comes your way whether it's a natural
disaster a sudden emergency or
unforeseen circumstances having a
reliable food storage system can provide
you with peace of mind and the assurance
that you and your loved ones will be
well taken care of right now my Patriot
Supply is offering major savings on
their four-week emergency food kit to
help you stay prepared for anything go
to preparewithpeterson.com and grab this
special price before it ends your
four-week emergency food kit provides
over 2 000 calories each day for optimal
strength and energy in stressful
situations you can enjoy a wide variety
of my Patriot Supply and can even
customize your supply they offer an
ultimate breakfast kit a mega protein
kit with real meat and even a
gluten-free kit the best part is each
meal is delicious and has a shelf life
of 25 years don't wait for a disaster to
strike before taking action invest in
your safety and well-being by securing
your food storage today go to prepare
with Peter dot com and get major savings
on your four-week emergency supply kit
go to repairwithpeterson.com right now
let's prepare with peterson.com
yeah definitely yeah there's definitely
something to that yeah well I found that
social occasions were somewhat awkward
and and also
yeah I would say also that I didn't
exactly know what to do without that
false camaraderie that alcohol produces
and that inflation of confidence and and
extroversion as well yeah not not a wise
developmental strategy all things
considered All right so we're back to
when you're eight and now you're a
Canadian okay so so walk so you're
you're not in boarding school at that
point and no where are you living
Halifax Nova Scotia in Halifax yeah how
long were you guys in on the East Coast
um I you know I think I left there to go
live with my dad at late 12. you know so
what was happening with you and your mom
and did you idealize the idea of going
off to live with your dad I did I did I
mean the problem with split families say
yeah he'd silvered up and and I didn't
get to see him very often maybe once or
twice a year he would come out to the
East and and um
and you know my dad I I I I I would say
that you know they said I read this
thing once that you kind of like sort of
Typecast yourself or you or you model
your personality a little bit on the
people that you most admired at the age
of say seven eight nine ten yeah you
know for me that admiration is four
that's that's mirror neurons admiration
I'm watching man you bet and so for me
it was like a weird combination of uh
like uh um Indiana Jones and uh Han Solo
and uh Hogan from Hogan's Heroes and my
dad who encapsulated all of those people
um and so when he sobered up and became
safe and the idea that of going to live
with him was possible yeah ideal I
idealized the idea of it and of course
was at what age that was at 12 like 12
maybe just turning 13. yeah well you
know it's a real open question exactly
when boys and girls as well for that
matter really most need their fathers
you know and if your father is a target
of emulation it might well be that you
most need them especially when you're a
boy about the time that you hit puberty
and I think part of the reason for that
I remember when I lived in Montreal
there was this kid that lived down the
street we lived in poor areas in
Montreal
and there was this kid that lived down
the street one of the places we live who
uh who was the son of a single mother
she was about 5'4 and he was about six
feet tall and he was 14. you know and he
was out tromping around the streets in
Montreal causing trouble and we used to
hear his mother we didn't know them we
used to hear them you know fighting in
the hallway for example and uh like what
the hell could she do about it you know
he was six feet tall yeah you know short
of telling him to get the hell out and
then potentially enforcing that with the
police he had her cornered you know for
all intents and purposes especially when
he had his little gang of friends yeah
you know his mother wasn't going to be
able to do a damn thing and so you know
it it might well be that when you are
around 12 and you're a boy especially if
you're you know
temperamentally inclined to some degree
to to be challenging that that's exactly
the right time for you to have a father
who can step on you around I know that
there's some evidence among elephants
for example that the older males
socialize the younger males and that
when when human uh Wildlife curators
have attempted to reformulate Elephant
societies which are extraordinarily
complex the young males Rampage around
like mad unless there are older males to
keep them in line there's a very good
example of that that um you know culling
of elephants is a unfortunate necessity
uh if you put elephants into the career
National Park without the saber-toothed
cats that used to hunt them they breed
like crazy they breed at a rate of about
12 per year so then they destroy all the
trees and you know so then the WWF comes
along and says we'll pay you not to
shoot your elephants which is to say
we'll pay you to let all your trees get
destroyed right right so of course they
do have to shoot the elephants and it's
a terrible thing
um and so they've tried different
mechanisms and they one way that they
used to do it was to go in and take out
the oldest members right the the the the
dominant males and and and and so on but
what happened as a result of that is
they left young uncultured elephants
yeah and those elephants would Rampage
they would attack cars they they had
never been taught and uh and so I think
it is a really good example of um the
wisdom of Elders even in the animal
kingdom being very important especially
in those complex I mean elephants are
unbelievably intelligent yeah and they
have a prehensile trunk right and
anything that has a prehensile
attachment tends to be extraordinarily
intelligent like octopuses for example
only live three years something like
that but appear to be at least as smart
as dogs which is you know pretty damn
smart and and with that increased
intelligence comes a necessity for
deeper socialization and then the
necessity for something like a
continuous historical tradition yeah
because with all that additional
uh brain expanse
that environmental specific programming
that's associated with socialization
starts to become increasingly crucial
you see that too even if you have a
particularly smart breed of dog like
it's great to have a smart dog but a
smart untrained dog is a really bad dog
yeah a stupid untrained dog just lays
there like a stupid dog and you know who
cares but I always say if you especially
if you're a smart breed Border Collies
that's right you have them if you're not
training them
yeah yeah well that's the thing about it
they're training you you have to be
smarter than the dog and that's not
always that easy yeah yeah yeah well
that's also the case if you have a
particularly pushy child and they can be
socialized very well but this this uh
you know this question of the role of
the the father I I actually I think that
there's um there's two distinct phases
at least it feels like to me there's the
there's the um
the contrast between the nurturing
mother energy
um and the uh disciplinary
um
you know sort of structured uh father
energy and I think that that even has to
be their say sub three years old yeah
and I was lucky I had that you know it
may have been better it could have been
better but but I had it but then there
does enter that next phase which is
where it's not now about boundaries it's
not now about discipline but it is about
modeling it's about and and I was lucky
that while I lost my dad for some time I
kind of lost it right in the middle and
got it back right at the point that it
was necessary again yeah well that
maternal love is a kind of
all-encompassing acceptance and that's
precisely necessary in early infancy
where the infant can do no wrong and the
paternal role is more like uh boundary
setting and encouragement jointly
together and it it you know that seems
somewhat paradoxical that you can
encourage people by setting boundaries
but but the thing about encouragement is
it's goal directed and it means that you
have to be on the pathway to genuine
success and Pathways have boundaries so
so all right so you're in the normal
school system I presume at this time yes
and this is in Halifax and then you do
move to go live with your dad and how
long do you live with your dad and when
do you when do you start this
alternative this this boarding school
I'm with him for about half a year
before he sent me I think I finished
grade seven with him I started grade
seven with my mom finished grade seven
with my dad and then he put me for grade
eight into the so 13. okay okay now you
said it was more difficult for you to
live with him and vice versa than you
guys had presupposed and so you're seven
and you're 13 and so what makes you hard
to get along with you know um Rebellion
uh you know tell me to be home at 10 and
I'm not gonna be you know I I don't know
what was going on but I was in real
active rebellion and I'm sure I was
rebelling against the divorce I was
rebelling against alcoholism what about
your friendship no I mean I when I was
13 you know my friends I know like I
said I grew up in a small northern town
and it was kind of a rough working-class
town and there weren't
all my friends were rough working-class
kids hilarious people extremely good
senses of humor most of them with fairly
damaged relationships with their father
a lot of drinking a fair bit of
misbehavior although nothing
particularly serious you know like we
weren't we weren't criminal gangs or
anything like that but there was a fair
bit of petty shoplifting and an awful
lot of drinking and carousing after
hours and my relationship with my dad
became somewhat fractured at that point
too and I was a smaller kid and uh
intellectual and I probably
overcompensated to some degree on that
part by hanging around with the rougher
kids yeah you know which which I
actually think was a pretty damn good
strategy it served me well all things
considered but was part of my
relationship with my with my father who
didn't necessarily approve of my friends
and and shouldn't have quite frankly you
know I think he was probably right uh I
probably thought he was right then even
you know that didn't mean you were going
to listen well you know what the hell
are you gonna do you know if you have
any sense when you're 13 and this is the
whole issue about being a teenager is
that your your ability to fit in with
your peer group is a predictor of your
success in your life you're going to
prioritize fitting in with your peer
group over everything else and you know
the whole point of Parenthood in some
real sense is to produce a child who's
acceptable to his or her peers because
well for obvious reasons and so there is
that tension and then of course the
other thing you're trying to do when
you're 13 is to start pushing the
boundaries with regards to Independence
anyways you're doing that apparently
what were your friends like when you
were 13. they were exactly you're not my
parallels are pretty clear I was I was
hanging around with a bunch of people
and by the way I still can I some of
them write to me on Facebook these days
even from back then you know and and
sorry guys but you were unacceptable
um but they're unacceptable but there
was a camaraderie and and it was exactly
that I had a peer group and um and and
it just made sense that that I fit in
there and that and and I felt accepted
there and and Rebellion you know so that
was in Edmonton that was in Edmond so
and you'd move from Halifax Edmonton was
a bigger city much bigger city right so
more opportunity to get in trouble too
lots more trouble yeah you know um there
was a moment there and it was a very big
growing up moment for me and I think it
has a lot to do with the uh transition
from
being bullied to no longer being bullied
and so first of all when I was a very
small child I was five or six years old
my babysitter Judy Park she she um she
disappeared and I had a big crush on her
so her disappearing was a big thing in
my life and about three months later
they found her and she'd been killed and
and her her murder has never been solved
you know it's one of those things but
Clifford Olson I'm sure you remember oh
yes uh he took credit for it I think
because he had a cast for he had a cash
for locations program so he was he took
credit for it but then it turned out it
had nothing to do with him but this was
in my awareness that's a crooked Manny
it was crooked it was to be a serial
killer who will also go to the lengths
of of
confessing to murders he didn't commit
well they were paying him for body
locations I mean it's Christ that's a
whole nother thing but I grew up with
that in my awareness and um and and so
here I was in Edmonton and one night
and I lived in a a
um actually the part that I'd left out
is after my dad and I reconciled he
moved to Vancouver and he left me there
so I was still living on my own but at
least now in an apartment and one night
I was walking home I'd missed my last
bus it's three in the morning and I was
walking home and uh I had to walk about
three kilometers and it was this is in
East Edmonton it's not the safest area
in the world and I'm going up through
the alleys because I I it's longer to go
on the lit street so I just take the
alley route
and this car pulls up beside me slowly
and there's a guy in the car
um doing unacceptable things to himself
while watching me as he walks oh yeah
fun and the first thing I did is I went
to my back pocket because it was like
routine for me to have a switch later or
a butterfly knife but I had just been
out with some friends at a club that
have metal detectors so I didn't have
one so I'm walking down the street and
this guy beside me and I'm freaking out
and I've grown up with this awareness
right like there's we all come to that
point where you realize life is actually
not permanent and I and I that was fix
it for me so I was very aware of this
situation the guy kept circling around a
bunch of times
and as I got closer to my house I didn't
want him to see where I lived I live on
my own I'm 15 years old 16 years old so
I go into the school ground behind
because it was flood lit like crazy uh
to keep all the druggies out and stuff
so I go into the school ground and I
climb up the spiral uh slide because I
figure if I get to the top of the Spiral
slide I'm safe like there's no way he
can get up there without coming up face
first right right so I just climb up
there flood lit and plus there's
apartment buildings on all sides of me
so there's Witnesses right like I'm in
the safest possible place I could be at
three o'clock in the morning and he
pulls into the school parking lot I
could and he sat there for quite a while
and then he opened his car door
and I I don't
I it's all so vivid to me like I I I the
car was yellow I that's a long memory to
hold on to but and he walked across the
grass and as he walked across the grass
I contemplated what was going on
and I made a very clear decision I'm
going to kill him
like I'm I'm not I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm
just I have no choice if he comes up the
ladder then I'm gonna I'm gonna kick him
across the bridge of the nose and when
he falls I'm gonna jump on him and keep
jumping until it's over I'm done I'm
done I'm so scared and and and he came
right to the bottom of the ladder and he
put one foot on the ladder put one hand
on the rail and he looked up to me he
goes are you looking for company and uh
I'll save the actual vernacular that I
used for him at that moment but I was
unkind yeah and he turned around he
walked back to his car and he sat in his
car for three hours and I stayed at the
top of the slide for three hours and I
did not come down and then eventually
that's a learning moment learn and you
know but the weirdest thing is I was
never bullied after that
ever again what changed I was willing to
stand up for myself physically I I just
yeah so but what do you think changed
like you said you weren't bullied did
that means you were signaling in a
different manner right yeah see I saw
this in my clients sometimes as a
clinician I would see them integrate
their Shadow let's say and one of the
things I really noticed you can actually
see this by the way portrayed in the
movie The Lion King it's very
interesting because
um Simba when he's an adolescent like a
child in an adolescent animated has a
facial expression sort of like this
right it's like everything's coming in
he's like a deer in the headlight say
then he has this initiation experience
where he realizes his Affinity with his
father and who's and his father has a
very commanding Visage a very commanding
face very differently animated and these
of course Disney level animators are
bloody Geniuses so they capture these
things and the animators flip Simba's
facial configuration at that point so
that there's a a setness and a harshness
to the way that he looks at the world
it's as if he's coming out instead of
things coming in right he's got a
command to him and I'm wondering if that
experience that you had restructured the
physiognomy of your expression posture
yeah posture facial expression and
reaction eye contact yeah and reaction
uh you know many years ago and this I I
read this article and it set the
foundation for almost all the work that
I do today and it was like it influences
everything I do and it was an article
about two women who were sexually
assaulted in Central Park around about
the same time and this investigative
journalist followed them after it
happened the recovery and what their
lives were like after them the one woman
they they both went through it and of
course there's a horrible truth about
sexual assault is that once you've been
sexually assaulted once you are
significantly more likely to be sexually
assaulted again yeah and that's because
the kind of people who commit those
crimes are spineless you know wimpy they
go after the weak and so if you yeah
they're predators no they're not even
they're the wrong Predator almost is
complementary they're they're worse
they're they're scavengers but yeah well
that's the parasite element yeah and so
they they uh in any event they both
learned this fact that once you've you
know because in the clinics in the in
the shelters they tell them these things
you have to be careful because it you
know now it might happen again the one
woman hears that news and the meaning
she creates is I am now even more of a
victim than I was before yeah and she
turns to you know a prescription and
non-prescription medication and suicide
attempts and it ruins their whole life
right right so that's the anxiety route
the The Other Woman she um
she said well why why are you yeah
attack the second time it's because
you're displaying fear fear so she went
to a self-defense class and she learned
some useful things like a credit card
held in the right way swiped across the
throat can accurately cut it and keys
held between the knuckles are an
incredibly effective weapon and she
learned these things yeah and she
started walking down the street
differently and yeah in one example she
was out with some friends and they're
like would you would you like us to
would you like us to walk you to your
car yeah yeah what happened yeah yeah
right right you know and she's like no I
don't want you to walk me to my car I
will walk myself to my car yeah and
pretty soon her friends were like would
you walk me to my car right right so she
starts a self-defense Clinic it gets
franchised and and she you know she
opens a few of them and she hears the
telling moment in the interview the the
the interviewer says to her if you could
go back in time and prevent your own
rape would you do that
she says no
I am significantly more afraid of the
woman that I was before it happened than
I am of the event itself
yeah right and I I when I read that I
thought about what those parasitical
predatory types you know especially with
regards to predation on children as they
look for children who are uncertain and
easily cowed and so that's another thing
for everyone watching and listening to
know if you teach your children to be
afraid as their fundamental response to
the world you are enabling the people
who prey on them because the people who
do that will watch and they target their
children they think they can intimidate
into silence yeah yeah so so that that
trembling like a rabbit in the in the
evil serpent die of the Predator that's
a very bad strategy for human beings
because we're not rabbits and we don't
use background camouflage as our defense
yeah yeah it's that it's that calling
out of aggression that's the right
response to predation now it's
interesting you know that you said that
you weren't bullied again after that eh
yeah yeah that's very that's a very
interesting transformation all right so
now your father has gone off to
Vancouver and left you to live alone
yeah and so and near how old 16 16 and
so when do you go off to boarding school
that it was I left boarding school that
resulted in my dad leaving and right so
that was before that then right I
finished grade 10 in Edmonton and then I
moved back to live with my mother and
finished high school in Halifax
and and how did it go when you moved
back to your mother much better you know
we still had conflict my mom I think you
know uh it was one of those like one of
her ways of gaining connection was with
raised voices so we would have raised
voices uh and my and my brother wouldn't
engage in that stuff so I was the
favorite for that but she and I I we
were always very close but it was it was
a lot of tension and she then uh her
parents are getting older and she wanted
to move back to South Africa so when I
was 18 my mom's like I'm going back to
South Africa and I'm taking your little
brother with me and you're staying here
and that was that that was the beginning
of adulthood for me properly 18 years
old yeah but you were figuring it out
pretty independent pretty yeah she
wasn't worried about me yeah yeah right
right and so why did you get along with
her better once you moved back to
Halifax yeah you know I I I
I'd grown up and she'd grown up you know
it's it's one of those things you you uh
I remember sitting in the guidance
counselor's office of my one of my
schools and I saw the poster on the wall
that says kids you know move out now
while you still know everything you know
and it's amazing that once you know some
things you realize how much your parents
have learned in the meantime yeah yeah
yeah yeah that's for sure that's for
sure all right so now you're this is
when this is what year that's like 88th
88. now you it says here in in your bio
you're very entrepreneurial as a child
selling lemonade in front of your house
shoveling snow and raking leaves you got
your first professional job in 91 when
we became the first full-time employee
of rice X so now you're done high school
do you go off to college no you know I
fell into a
I fell into some strange things at that
time in Canada like for example I was in
an industrial accident and I lost I
nearly lost this hand in the fire and I
was pumping gas at Petro Canada on
Bayers Road and Halifax and my shift
boss flicked lighter at me when I had
gas all over me and uh
it was pretty bad they had to take the
skin off my legs to rebuild my arm and I
I lost a bunch of grade 12 as a result
of that and then of course because of
the way things work sometimes or don't
work with government I didn't qualify
for um I couldn't sue the employer
because of the workers compensation act
and I couldn't qualify for Works
compensation payment because I was
unemployable because I was in high
school
that's why I literally got not one
dollar or anything I missed all that
time work school and so I missed a few
credits so at the end of grade 12 I've
I'm shy a bunch of credits and I'm
trying to figure out how to get to
University but now I run into shy of the
credits you needed to be accepted yeah
like I was missing one credit or 1.5
credits or something and that was
fixable over summer school but in the
meantime I'm trying to figure out
University entrance and here's the
tricky part in Canada I don't know how
it is these days I haven't lived here
for a long time now but if you if your
parents earned over a certain threshold
you couldn't get student loans you
couldn't get student funding at that
stage my parents traditionally not
earned that amount of money my dad had
been an alcoholic and and but he had
just crossed over like he he was finally
he was making some good money but paying
off a life of not so my parents could
not afford to send me to go to school
and equally I couldn't qualify to get a
loan to go to school so I I I just
literally couldn't go and so I I didn't
I went to work and um I guess today
I'm grateful you know I think you and I
talked in public I said there are times
when I wish that um that I'd had the
experience of proper debate with
professors and refinement of of academic
thought processes and research and that
sort of thing but there's a bigger
advantage that came to me as a result of
that and that is that very often our
current education is about moving
students toward a singular truth you
know a convergent education a child can
tell you 26 uses for a brick somebody
who's learned about bricks can think of
one and that paid off very well for me
yeah yeah well you know one of the
things I've noticed
in my life is that
the most often the most interesting
people I've met
are super smart people who didn't go to
university
and they still have that native
intelligence but the fact that they
didn't go through that
upper echelon Echelon intellectual
training meant that they had to
formulate their own views of the world
and really from Whole cloth and you know
there's some disadvantages to that
because there are things you don't know
and avenues of critical thinking that
you haven't mastered but my impression
has been that those people are often
extremely original in their thinking
right because they have all that native
intelligence but it's manifested itself
in a way that's very unique to their
circumstances yeah so they have
interesting and new things to say rather
than the cookie cutter conversation you
get that you're more likely to get among
people who've been highly educated
you also get this um multiple
perspective view of a problem and here's
a great example from from my father I
think he talks about this in megaphone
is that if you go to the Lasko caves and
if you've never been I highly recommend
the Lasko caves a 20 000 year old
paintings I think when Picasso walked
through he looked around these paintings
and he said of art we have invented
nothing twenty thousand year old art but
there's a rhino in there now this is the
south of France there's a rhino in there
right right and there's four dots behind
the Rhino on the wall and symbologists
have looked at the dots and determined
that it means this is the end of the
story or something I don't know like
everybody's looked at and said what are
these four dots all about
the trouble is is that if you've had
this convergent education and say some
or or yeah in say symbology or or let's
say an art then you're looking at it
only through that lens if you're my
father and you've been looking you've
got your legal training but then
separately you've got all growing up in
in Africa you've got your you know his
father his grandfather was an
archaeologist zoologist you look at that
and you've spent a lot of time with
white rhinos in the bush what you know
about white rhinos is that a dominant
bull White Rhino poops explosive Big
Balls of poop out behind him and he
kicks them and he sprays his urine in a
huge aerosol cloud and I know remember
this present book right if you if you
know that then you look at the dots and
you go it's this is a painting of a
dominant Bowl nobody else knows that
that happened to me to a large degree
because you know when I was say 20 I was
very sick all the time and I made some
adjustments with food and completely
turned my life around but then as I was
trying to share those ideas with other
people I found out that people don't
follow rules very well food rules that
is
well there's 12 I think that people are
following quite well these days yeah
they should but the uh the uh but then
the other thing because I've been
involved in entrepreneurship and
business and marketing and business
coaching I had learned some things that
I would call about practical psychology
that allowed me to put my interest in
nutrition my interest in anthropology
and my interest in behavioral change
together yeah and I wouldn't have been
able to do that if I went to University
no no well it's also the case too you
know that people who have particularly
interesting things to say
tend to be masters of more than one
discipline that very rarely overlap so
one of my friends for example Jonathan
pajo he exists at the intersection of
Fine Art post-modern Theory and classic
Orthodox Christian theology there's like
well he's like the guy right because
there's no one else who there's no one
else like that there's probably no one
else like that in the world right and so
because he has expertise in those and
I've recommended you know to the people
who are watching and listening and
reading this sorts of things that I've
been trying to communicate that they try
to get very very good at one thing right
to start with that right to develop
expertise there but then if you can
expand out and get some expertise in
multiple areas and and then benefit from
the convergence of those man you really
I think that's part of what starts to
push people up that Pareto distribution
curve you know that attainment like like
success or like failure is non-linear
right the more you succeed the faster
you succeed yeah and that's why a small
that all the money ends up in the hands
of a small number of people and a tiny
proportion of recording artists have all
the records and a tiny proportion of
authors sell all the books I mean it's a
very very stable phenomenon it's called
the Matthew principle right to those who
have more much more will be given and
from those who have nothing everything
will be taken away a very harsh reality
of life but I think what happens is that
you develop these pockets of expertise
you bring them together and the effects
of that are multiplicative rather than
additive and that can really spiral you
up the the what would you say the
competence ladder towards higher and
higher levels of success and if you have
a society that opens up the possibility
for people to do that then the society
also tends to thrive so so anyways
you're you're not going to college you
start working and apparently you're
starting at a startup is that right yeah
I I you know I did door-to-door sales
and different like sort of you know
attempts at at life but then my dad uh
contacted me and he said I had a friend
who was starting a tech company or had
started a tech company but he was
struggling to move past solopreneur you
know he hired people and he just he
wasn't very good at people and and he
told this friend my son can sell ice to
you know to the eskimos and you should
hire him so were you a good door-to-day
sales I was I was really good I sold
Kirby Vacuums and and I was what did you
learn from doing that I you know I just
I was I I learned Rapport skills um I
learned uh quickness of thought to trust
my speech engine yeah um I remember for
example knocking on this one door once
and this woman says you guys like don't
you do any other neighborhoods you're
like the sixth guy from your company to
knock on my door in the last four months
like why do you guys I never let anybody
in why why do you keep coming and one
thing I can tell you about sales is that
the everybody has defense mechanisms
against sales yeah like like the hell
away right but the stronger your defense
is at the outer level the easier it is
to pillage on the inside so if if
somebody is very firmly won't let you in
the door that's because they're really
easy to sell to
it's just the way it is if somebody lets
you in easily you're gonna have a tough
go of it it's going to be interesting
this woman she's a very sneaky thing to
know very very powerful to know is This
Woman's really I can see she's got the
she's got the Fortress walls up the
drawbridge is up she goes and she goes
so what makes you any different and I
went I'm cute uh-huh and she busted out
laughing and of course laughter the
orgasm your brain you know and she opens
the door muscular attention all
disappeared invites me in for a coffee
and you know an hour and a half later
she's spending fifteen hundred dollars
on a vacuum she didn't know she needed
aha uh-huh and how long did you do
door-to-door sales two years two and a
half years well I did I did about a year
of that and then they put me in
recruiting and so so you stuck with it I
did I like it you know no but I just I
knew it was right somehow like there the
the
I knew that I was developing skills that
were used yeah well man there's that
ability to sell that's so what do you
learn about selling you just thought you
related one of the things you learned I
mean so selling marketing we have sales
and marketing and I don't really like
that either of those terms mean because
all of this is communication and if it's
done properly it's Communication in
relationship to trust if it's done well
were the vacuums you're selling decent
vacuums to this day if I I don't I live
in I live in the Caribbean we don't have
carpets but if I had carpets I would
have that vacuum no question about it so
you were selling something I believed in
it yeah okay okay well that's crucial
right like if you're if you're embarking
on a sales career and you don't believe
in what you're selling you're just
bloody liar and you're training yourself
to be a psychopath so you need and this
is good advice for people who are
listening who are thinking about doing
this is if you're going to sell you need
to believe that the thing you're selling
is actually worthwhile and does its job
properly because otherwise you're just a
bloody scam artist and you push me hard
enough I'm going to sell you a Kirby
yeah yeah yeah yeah okay so you stuck
with that for quite a while okay now now
you've got an opportunity to join a new
company that's based on a good idea the
guy who's established the company isn't
a person who has this easy capacity
let's say or well-developed capacity for
communication and sales so you step in
there what happens I join him and it's
with the company lifts off I'm really
good at what I do like he tells me and I
don't really get much training he
basically hands me a binder full of
names of people and he says call these
people and try to buy or sell barcode
equipment you know okay and what was the
equipment barcode scanning equipment
data capture equipment barcode printing
uh you know and related technology and
what did it offer the people that you
were talking to you know um what we did
a lot of times is we would call
companies and buy equipment from them
because we refurbished it and resold it
so when they bought it from us what they
were buying is sometimes cheaper
sometimes they're buying obsoleted
equipment that they couldn't get anymore
so we were providing them a valuable
service there were a number of different
angles that we took but you know one of
the things I found really fascinating
about generally sales and marketing is
that um people are uh so afraid of
rejection
and yeah and I think it's selfish I
think it's really selfish to be afraid
of that rejection because if you believe
in what you're selling
um then you have to ask yourself is my
30 seconds of rejection feeling more
important to me than the pain I might be
resolving for this person over the next
few Decades of their life right right so
like you know in my in my business in
wildfit we help people you know uh
reframe their relationships with food
and we've we have like literally
hundreds of cases of morbid obesity
being ended at type 2 diabetes being
reversed and so on if I'm sitting with
you if I've been sitting with you some
years ago when you're dealing with all
the autoimmune stuff and I held back
from offering you what you now know but
you didn't then if I held back offering
that because of my fear of rejection how
selfish is that how selfish is it for me
to not try to well that would also that
also I think emerges for people too when
they're when they're selling something
they don't believe in which basically
means that they're lying I mean my then
a lot of sales and marketing like a lot
and um and with some success and with a
lot of failure um for a variety of
complex six reasons and I learned that
well first of all you're not selling
you're forming relationships because if
you're a Salesman and you have even the
Vegas clue you don't lie to your damn
customers because you actually want to
have a relationship with them for like
the next 20 years and so you have to be
offering them something genuine and it
can't be it can't be nonsense and you
have to believe and it has to be the
case that what you're offering
them this partnership is going to be of
clear and outstanding Mutual benefit and
then when you're selling you're actually
not trying to sell or convince right
you're trying to establish relationships
and I've also learned too that and I
don't know what you think about this but
my sense too is that
this wouldn't be exactly the same as
doing it door-to-door but you know if
you push and inquire and see if there's
a fit and you see that there isn't a fit
there's not a lot of sense pushing
because if there isn't a fit you should
be going to talk to someone else plus if
there isn't a fit and you push it the
fact that there isn't a fit is just
going to cause endless trouble As you
move forward in the relationship you
know sales networking and dating they're
basically the same function and we make
exactly the same mistakes in one as we
do in the other so very often people try
to go for the sale too quickly and date
the way that looks you're looking at the
at the menu and the one person in the
date says oh look they have a kitty menu
for when we're back here next year right
that might be that's a little premature
or or oh by the way I brought the
condoms I mean either way that's a
little early right that's that's an
indicator of a kind of impulsive
predatory psychopathy by the way that's
focus on immediate gratification in the
present is a very bad marker of
character exactly and we make that many
people make mistakes like that in dating
but they but they make that mistake even
more commonly in selling yeah for the
sale too quickly yeah so one of the ways
that I often demonstrate this is you
know I've done lectures on this all over
the world and I've got an audience and
I'll generally pick a woman in the front
row and I said can we have a date please
and bring her up on the stage she has a
microphone and and I'll I'll say hello
I'm so glad that you swiped right so we
could be here today you know making a
bit of a light of it yeah and then uh
and then I'll go so let's let's start
the date I uh
um I'd like to give you a little bit of
my personal background I'm a partner in
a law firm we do intellectual property
law and by the time I get to that place
there's a camera on her and you can see
on the big screen for everybody's
watching women have two sets of eyelids
there's there's this one set of eyelids
that close their eyes are open but
they're not they're gone yeah and and
that's if you talk too long like that
they're gone they're gone from the
conversation and that again is the
problem of networking and selling it's
like pushing pushing
then I go and everybody notices that
I've lost her and go okay now you see
what I've done I've lost her can I can I
have a re I'm not going to get I'm not
gonna get a second date so can we have a
do-over all right yeah so now I start to
go you know as much as I'd love to share
with you about my you know my my law
firm and steps what I'd really like to
know is what do you like to do for fun
yeah yeah yeah now now she starts
telling what she likes to do for fun and
I keep asking if I'm not pushing I'm
asking yeah then invariably and I've
done this countless times in countries
all over the world invariably she will
come to some area where she talks about
her passion or hobby her career her
dreams and she goes oh I have a book I'm
working on and I go you have a book
you're working on have you chosen a
title yet she goes no I go listen when
you start thinking about are there ideas
in the book that might be unique and she
goes yes I go have you have you
considered copyright protections and
maybe a registration oh yeah yeah and
she goes yeah and I go well listen I'm a
partner in it now my fictitious when I
was when I was selling so I started out
selling so to speak as a professor and
my sense was and I knew that this was
the case what I was offering to the to
the companies I was attempting to sell
to I Knew would produce a staggering
economic return for them and I could
demonstrate that statistically and I can
demonstrate it through brute fact and I
thought to begin with that my
job was to just lay out the facts and
not to convince but to lay out the facts
and let people form their own judgment
and what I didn't understand was that
people almost never make a judgment
based on facts and certainly not on
statistical facts like like that just
net that hardly happens with data
scientists it certainly doesn't happen
with with like say typical middle
managers in a in a large corporation
that never happens and what you have to
do is exactly what you just described is
you have to find out from the person
um what's what what are your problems
like what's not going well for you at
work what sort of things do you want to
address and the if the person lays out
their problems and you in principle have
a solution to one of those problems and
then that's not manipulative it's like
oh well you know there's something there
I think I could help you with if they
lay out their whole problem set and
nothing you're doing has any bearing on
that the probability that you're going
to be able to sell to them in my
estimation is extremely low because
they're preoccupied with a whole set of
problems for whom you are not solution
and so the trick often trick
is to get it's not a trick it's not a
trick is that the the the conversation
has to be about the person you're
talking to and not about you which is
also a very good what would you say mode
of alleviating social anxiety because if
your goal in a social situation is to
make the other person comfortable you're
not focusing on yourself and you're not
anxious but okay so you let me let me
offer you you know you said that like
facts and statistics aren't the thing
that'll drive them and I would say it
depends exactly on how interesting those
facts and statistics are to them and
when they were delivered yeah so years
ago I was invited to teach marketing at
one of Tony Robbins you know big
business seminars and so in the talk I I
I'm telling a story and I'm telling a
story about hunting with the Hudson
people in East Africa who I've been
visiting now for some 15 years and my
very first hunting trip with them I'm
out hunting and I'm running I'm trying
to keep up behind them and it's like
hard you can move fast and um and and I
realized that if I'm on this hunting
trip we're all going to starve to death
because I make a lot of noise they don't
and so I started watching the way they
moved and and you know and I thought to
myself and I was on Tony Robbins stage
so I used his language and I said well
what would Tony Robbins say if somebody
else was getting the result you wanted
he would say model them yeah and so I
started looking at the way they were
running that's a pretty good Tony
Robbins not bad by the way yeah and so
uh so I started watching they were
running they land on the fronts of their
feet and I was like why do I have to
learn this from the Bushman that's how I
snuck around the house as a child this
is a natural human movement and then I
started thinking to myself wait a second
I've been running now I'm I I start
running with them I run on the fronts of
my feet I'm silent I'm I barely make any
noise I'm able to pick my foots fall
better I I don't impact the ground as
and and I know that it was working
because one of the Bushmen who was
supposed to be keeping track of me
turned around to make sure I was still
there it was working it was working but
then after about an hour and a half of
running like this I realized something
else magical and that was my knee was
not hurting my knee that had been hurt
so badly by running the London Marathon
that I had to give up running at 30.
it's way too young to give up running
you know if you want to run and uh but
now my knee wasn't hurting I'm like why
is my knee not hurting I I can never run
this long what's going on here
I'm running differently I'm running the
way you would run if your running shoes
did not allow an improper foot strike
you see the thing is when you land on
your heel
you send all of that foot Strike Up for
your skeletal system yeah and and I I
sure there's no spring that's right with
in the heel the the they put in air to
protect your heel from the shock but
that doesn't protect your knee or your
hip or your neck and and I share this
whole idea right now you probably even
have forgotten the purpose of why I was
beginning to tell this story because
stories are like that
before I told the story I asked the
audience how many people in this room
are about to buy a new cell phone three
percent how many are buying a new car in
the next few months three percent
whatever you ask it's three percent I
had also asked how many are you going to
buy new running shoes it was three
percent at the end of my story
after giving them facts and statistics
about heel strikes and barefoot running
shoes I said now how many of you are
thinking you might need to buy new
running shoes 70 right right facts and
data delivered in the right way create
the market yeah well and you know what
the right way is if you're paying enough
attention to the conversation that also
means that you can't be concentrating on
selling precisely that's exactly right
because and well I I think that's true
in a conversation in general is that
it's a mistake this is part of the
reason Joe Rogan is so successful by the
way is Rogan doesn't he's not selling
his podcast during his podcast all Joe
is trying to do is have interesting
conversations right and then and your
point is that something if I've got it
right is let the interesting
conversation unfold and you may see that
there are things that you have to offer
that will slot into it naturally without
being forced right that's right without
any instrumental manipulation on your
part selling in our world called sales
opportunity selling in our world means
manipulating yeah and the truth is when
you walk into you know you walk into Tim
Hortons and buy a donut nobody
manipulated you well I would we could
argue what they did with their
advertising and sugar might have been
manipulating yeah the transaction was a
sale selling is solving a problem for
people you're right yes yes you should
you need t-shirts with that printed on
it because that's exactly right that's
yeah yeah and then there's absolutely
100 nothing corrupt about it either you
know when salesmen have a they have a
bad name in our culture kind of like
politicians and I think that is because
sales can attract narcissists you know
yeah well well they're all in sales
politicians people in in entertainment
people in media like people have a
public life and and who have to
communicate to convince they're you're
going to attract a larger than normal
proportion of psychopaths but that
doesn't mean that the bloody Endeavor
itself is
corrupt and immoral at its core and it's
not if what you see as a Salesman is
that what you're trying to do are is to
offer genuine solutions to the actual
problems that people have which is what
you should be doing if you have
something reasonable to sell
that uh comment on narcissism you and I
talked talked a little bit about that in
in Mexico you know I told you about my
book The Evolution Gap and um one of the
features of that is like comparing the
idea of the evolution Gap is that
there's this Gap that has begun to open
between human evolution which is very
very slow and human Innovation which is
rapidly accelerating and narcissism is
quite an interesting one because if
you're living in a hunter-gatherer tribe
narcissism will only get you so far yeah
yeah not very yeah
you can Dart in your back and Derek
here here in Toronto in New York or in
any larger Community you can stay put
like a like a spider and and you can
mess up that relationship with your
narcissism and then pick up the next one
and pick up the next one yeah narcissism
in our world actually becomes an
advantage and that's that's a sort of uh
that's a symptom of that guy probably
multiplied online yeah this is really
frightening me you know because my
my understanding of the psychopathic
Personnel or what what would you say the
psychopathic proportion of the
population it's about three percent not
very high because it's not a very
successful strategy it can it has and
can run rampant in certain historical
epochs that's what happened during the
Russian Revolution for example a very
small percentage of people can cause a
tremendous amount of trouble now we've
evolved mechanisms to keep the
psychopathic parasites at Bay and a lot
of those involve the Potential Threat of
physical Force like your the story you
told about being on top of the Swing
zero zero of that applies online and so
there's an immense amount of of
not even subtle criminal activity online
I don't know how much online activity is
Criminal but if you include pornography
it's probably like 40 percent of the
total internet uh environment is
criminal in the broader sense that's a
lot forty percent it's a lot and there's
zero punishment virtually zero
punishment for psychopathy online it's
also you know when we talk about three
percent of the world being like that
it's not that three percent of the I
don't think I don't think of it that way
I think of it everybody's on that
spectrum and in one Society three
percent of the world show up that way in
another Society people who would have
been in the fourth or fifth percentile
start showing up that way yeah well that
that definitely well so you don't have
to wait for that to get naturally
selected it starts to awaken yeah yeah
well there you can you can imagine that
there's there's a temperamental
proclivity to that it can be fought on
behalf of the people who have the
proclivity right so imagine that
wherever you are in the five-dimensional
personality space you have a set of uh
talents and a set of Temptations and the
Temptation if you're extroverted and
disagreeable is to be uh narcissistic
and but that isn't necessarily
inviolable outcome okay so there's
people without proclivity then there's a
space that either opens up for them or
doesn't and that space could be you can
get away with it or the space could be
you get encouraged if it's encouraged
it's going to grow it's definitely being
encouraged online it's being encouraged
and funny enough that's another symptom
of this Evolution Gap because again for
the vast majority of human history even
we lived in fear can you even imagine
what it would have been like to to sleep
uh on the Savannah Without fire
uh no it would have been terrifying well
I felt that to some degree back country
camping in the Rockies where I know
there are Grizzlies but that's just like
a tiny test after 99. that's after 99 of
the megafauna were removed yeah exactly
exactly and The Grizzlies are smart
enough generally to be afraid and they
won't bother you unless they're starving
and old and you stumble across one right
so if you if you think that our
ancestors lived really very much fearful
lives fearful of things fearful of
conditions fearful of others and and
that's a very natural instinct that we
have in us now you take one of those
three percent narcissistic Psychopathic
people and put them in a position of
power and what do they do they offer US
Safety yeah yeah well and they Foster
fear yeah yeah well they create the fear
they offer US Safety but we have to
sacrifice our freedom for their safety
and our Instinct as as frightened
primates is to go for that and so that
that's the Eternal offering of a tyrant
it's like here this is why the
apocalyptic climate narrative really
drives me mad it's like well first first
of all I don't think there is a crisis
of the proportions that's being like
purported let's say by any stretch of
the imagination I don't think there's
any data to support that whatsoever but
also the the problem with it is is that
the apocalyptic fear that that generates
um justifies the acquisition of Power by
precisely the kind of Psychopathic
predators that you're describing it's
like oh everything's going to fall apart
wink wink give all the power to us and
we'll keep you safe it's like yeah I
don't think so I think you're a bigger
threat than the damn climate by a large
there's a nice way to look at that too
you know climate change uh you know I
mean you'll remember that in the 70s it
was global cooling yes and then then it
was global warming now it's climate
change but here's what's really uh
fascinating I well first of all I think
that trying to measure our impact on on
climate and so forth a little bit like
measuring the height of a flea jump on
the back of a white rhino running across
the the Savannah trying to predict where
the Rhino is going to go yeah meanwhile
we have plastic in the oceans we have
air quality problems we have tangible
things that you can agree with whether
you're whether you're a Democrat or
whether you're Republican or
conservative or liberal yeah we have we
have very we're not arguing about those
things we're arguing about this one
massive nebulous thing that can't
properly be proven and and giving up our
power for it yeah you bet you bet it's a
major danger there's no doubt about it
all right so now you're alert you're
you're uh making your sales ability more
sophisticated you're working with this
company what happens then I stay with
that company for about six or seven
years and I find
um you know I get to a place where you
know I I I've been offered Equity a
number of times and um you know what
happens a lot of times with
entrepreneurs anyway is that they it's
easy to give away Equity when it doesn't
when it has no value and then once it
has value it's like harder to keep your
promises apparently for some people it's
like well people forget too you know
when you make these you know this is
another thing for people watching and
listening to understand is even if you
have established a trusting relationship
with people don't overestimate the
degree to which people can actually
remember I agree I agree but that was
not the case here this was a willful
case of manipulating I'll give you an
example I walk into my office one day
and and we're trying to bid for some
equipment and we don't really want to
buy this equipment we want to keep it
off the market you understand so so my
boss goes and he negotiates with this
company to buy the equipment from them
and he sends them a fax and the facts is
a blank piece of paper and I go why did
you fax them a blank piece of paper and
he goes
he goes because we agreed on the phone
that I could buy that stuff so now he
can't sell it to anybody and if he does
sell it to one of my competitors in the
meantime I have a telephone record that
proves that I fax a purchase order to
him oh yeah so this is not a man who
forgot the promises he made to me this
is a man who has a style of thinking
that doesn't measure right right let's
call it a tangential relationship with
the truth yeah yeah yeah well that's
very instrumental right so and the irony
is I left that company and um and he
owed me uh you know maybe 200 180 000 in
back commissions and and and and refused
to pay it to me because he was afraid
this is irony I love irony I I mean I I
I I like proper examples of irony like
Ronald Reagan was not shot he wasn't
actually shot he was hit by a bullet
that ricocheted off his bulletproof
limousine you know I I like good
examples of irony and so in my case my
uh uh he won't pay me the money because
he's afraid that I will set up a
competitive Venture meantime one of my
mentors has offered me a job as a stock
broker in Grand Cayman which is my dream
to go and live in the Caribbean but I if
without that money I can't I you know I
need some money so uh the the ironic
twist is that one of my clients calls me
and he says you know can you find some
equipment for me and I'm like I don't
I'm living in England at this point
because I've been relocated to England
to open the European headquarters I've
quit my job I'm not legally allowed to
be in the country for work I I have a
pregnant wife it's a tough time and and
my and my boss won't give me the money
so I can relocate the guy says can you
find this equipment for me and I'm like
yeah I go find it for him and I make
money and then I do it again and then I
do it again I'm like and then I start a
company and what kind of company direct
competitor with my previous oh yeah yeah
total irony yeah right and I ran that
business
um in the UK for about nine years and
then sold it to private buyers and and
you know moved on with like got out of
the data capture how successful were you
at that new Enterprise it was and we
were we were I mean I I'll say I got my
200 000 back again and again and again
and again and and I sold it for a
retirable something why hadn't you done
that earlier going on on your own
earlier do you know I I've often
wondered about that because as a kid I
did I mean as a kid I was like I was the
this I was watching the news report the
minute the snow was happening I was like
I was out there knocking on the doors
like I'm gonna you know I'm gonna shovel
your sidewalks and I'm I'm also more
introverted so that's not the easiest
thing in the world for me to go do so I
was off doing that raking leaves and
then one year I came up with this genius
plan at the beginning of Christmas or at
the beginning of the snow season which
in Halifax is usually around Christmas I
sold insurance I I knocked on doors and
said look you can pay me now because you
usually pay me like ten dollars to do
your walk or five dollars or whatever
yeah but if you pay me 25 I'll I'll keep
your clue for the winter yeah big gamble
you know some years in Halifax I would
do I and but it works people went for it
so I clearly had that mindset and I
remember once distinctly what a lesson I
was raking leaves for this guy old
ornery guy and I I was and I was paying
by the by the by the trash bag full you
know he had to pay two dollars whatever
it was per trash bag and I in a huge
Garden so I'm I'm making it I'm filling
in about trash bag trash bag trash bag
he comes out and he squeezes one of the
trash bags and he goes no
no no no any and he packs it right down
yeah yeah I bet and he goes now that's a
trash bag and he goes he goes I'm not
trying to be cheap he says I'm trying to
teach you about value yeah because you
got to know that if I come out here and
you got light trash bags I'm not hiring
you again next year yeah right but if I
see that you do it right and I got to
tell you that guy massive impact on my
life everything I do today is about over
delivery on that basis yeah right no
kidding no kidding now that was that was
good of him that's for sure man he paid
you for your worked update he did he did
yeah yeah over deliver you bet well and
that's the thing is you got to remember
when you're selling to people first of
all
yeah
you don't want to sell to the wrong
person because you might be in bed with
them for a very long time that's a good
thing to learn if your so-called
fundraising too it's like you should
never fundraise you should look for
partners yeah and you don't want to take
money from the wrong person no that's a
very very bad idea so I bought a film
studio in Northern California
um years after all this and um and it
was originally the model shop it was
called the model shop and anybody who's
a Star Wars geek knows what I'm talking
about it's the original the original
like Studio of lucasfilm this is where
Star Wars well actually Star Wars is La
this Empire Strikes Back Indiana Jones
Pirates and so I bought the studio and
and and uh and uh now where was I going
with that uh getting in bed with the
wrong oh yeah so we had these incredible
3D camera uh systems that we were
building and we did our first we we did
a little bit of work on Avatar and and
it was really good and but then we need
to raise some Capital we raised capital
from a guy 1.2 million and he worked for
a huge he was like the second in command
of a huge entertainment company so we
thought and he said I'll land you the
money as long as I get to run company oh
yeah and um you know I I I could say he
ran into the ground let's say we ran it
into the ground that particular Venture
didn't really work but then he sued us
for his money from the company that he
was running and it was like I that was I
got the lesson from now once we're not
we're looking for like partners and
we've got them as much as we would
anybody yeah yeah well there's no such
thing as free money you're a bloody fool
if you think anybody whose money is easy
easy to take
first of all you better make sure that
it's not a lure second if their money is
easy to take that should tell you
something about them just means you
don't know how you're going to pay yeah
yeah that's exactly that's exactly right
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay so now
you've established a company in the UK
and you you did that for how long nine
years nine years and then you have you
have a family developing at the same
time yeah unfortunately my my wife at
the time uh decided rather unilaterally
that she didn't want to live in England
anymore and went on a vacation to Canada
and took my son with her and that's when
I found out that the Geneva can or the
Hague convention only applies up until
the 90th day and she called me on the
92nd day and said if you want to be with
us you have to come back to Canada and I
like I had employees and debts and I it
would have been personal bankruptcy and
ruin and then it also made me really ask
an important question about
um and in this and I'll never know if I
didn't even shock it was awful awful but
I spoke to my dad and my dad said what
would you want your son to do in the
exact same situation I said well I
wouldn't want him to be bullied that in
a lateral way like that I and I wouldn't
and I'd want him to take responsibility
for if I left everybody loses their jobs
most of them were long-term unemployed
before I came along because we're in an
impoverished part of the UK and and I
would have had to file bankruptcy it was
a massive impact for me to just suddenly
close up my business and I as a kid I
was a bit like that you know start
something it didn't work go to the next
thing yeah I was really in this phase of
you start things you got to finish them
and so I chose to stay and keep the
business in my when my wife and I
divorced at that point
very very difficult time but
um you know I learned a great deal and
uh and the business went well in the end
and and I sold it and um
uh and and you know this is a very
interesting thing about
um purpose you know like I think that
when we look at what we value you know
initially we value survival and and in
our world that means some level of
economic survival say but something
magical happens if you can transcend the
need for money and emotionally or
luckily logistically and that's really
what happened to me at that point is
that I I became free to actually follow
my passion and do things that really
drove me barcode scanning equipment
never drove me as much as I can get
fascinated by this so let me ask you
about that Pat see I I read Joseph
Campbell a lot for for years and he said
uh and and Campbell has some very
interesting things to say although he
learned most of them from Carl Jung he
said follow your passion and you know
there's there's a couple of things that
aren't right about that I mean the first
is it's not that easy to differentiate a
true passion from a false passion and
impulsivity is Passion but it's
short-term and so is it passion you
follow or is it interest or is it the
compelling nature of certain problems
that grip you or is it responsibility
right I mean these are I think that
there's a mix a passion by itself could
be good or bad could be vacuous or or
deep but passion combined with purpose
and what happened for me is I found a
purpose that you know when I was a kid I
wanted to be a teacher I had this great
teacher in grade three in Halifax Nova
Scotia Mr kolchinski I'm telling you he
was amazing he really I I can still
almost word for word repeats some of his
classes and I was eight years old he was
a phenomenal teacher when I was 25 years
old I was found myself back in half
Halifax briefly I called the school
board and I said is Mr still working we
called him Mr K because nobody could say
coltonski uh when we were kids but I as
Mr kolczynski still working with the
school yes he is actually can I have his
home number please no
15 minutes later to use the Star Wars
like these are not the droids you're
looking for I had his phone number and I
called him in his house and I said
Mr kolpinski this is Eric Edmonds and
I'm assuming 30 kids a year for all
these years I'm not gonna remember me so
but but before I even finished I said hi
this is Miss I said hi Mr Colton see
this is America Mr this is Eric Edmonds
I don't know if you remember me he goes
remember you I drove past your house a
few days ago I'm wondering did your
parents ever move back to Africa like
wow wow and I just told him that I'm
living a phenomenal life and that I
believe he was one of the significant
contributors to that for me and uh
anyway
but then I found out as I was leaving
school and I I don't you know like I
I feel bad kind of saying this but I
just it seems to me at least in the way
it was when I was a kid growing up in
Canada we just we don't really respect
teachers very much not economically and
not in other ways like the the or the
profession or the profession generally
and I was like I don't I'm not I I I I
want to teach but I don't want to be
treated like that yeah yeah yeah and so
now that I sold the business
I took a couple of years and traveled
around the world and I started doing a
little bit of business speaking um
people started inviting me to speak uh
about business because I'd sold my
company and that sort of thing but under
it under it I had a much deeper passion
and that was that at 21 years old I had
been really sick like not I'm not
talking terminal or you know anything
like that I just mean always on
medication always uncomfortable what was
wrong yeah I had I had a horrible sign a
permanent chronic sinus infections
throat infections my tonsils would be
like golf balls in my throat
um ear infections digestive really
serious digestive cramps that were so
bad that I couldn't speak or think
um a horrible cystic acne um oh yeah and
uh I always I mean always dripping from
the from the nose it was just generally
I was just not a healthy kid and I
wasn't like that younger but sometime in
somewhere between 12 and 21 that all
started developing and I'd been to see
doctors and Specialists and needles and
pills and injections and even surgery
finally they recommended and um uh you
know I I went to a friend of mine talked
me into going to a seminar a sales
seminar it was Tony Robbins you know 21
years old and um I I I thought I was
going to go there and learn about money
and sure I did but on the last day Tony
spoke about food and I think he and I
would agree on this point that many of
the things he shared about food back
then are are um not what he and not what
he or I believe about food but they were
a lot better than the way I was eating
and so I made a bunch of changes and
what did you change primarily you know
uh process you know the reduction of
processed food uh elimination of dairy
products um elimination of meat at that
point and I'll come back to that later
because that was that was wrong and
there's something about there's
something about that that's interesting
but
um and and then the increase of of good
things and within 30 days I had lost 35
pounds 35 days 30 days yeah Jesus shock
well remember a lot of it's not fat a
lot of inflammation yeah yeah right yeah
and which I don't know it's still a
shock here's how big a shock it is I go
visit my mom I land in Johannesburg I
come down the the the the back then it
was like you came down these escalators
into John Smith's airport Johannesburg
International now you come down there
and there's greeting area and my mom and
I'm there with my girlfriend and my mom
looks at at me and looks right through
me huh doesn't even see wow then she
looks at my girlfriend who had like
bright red hair Robin I know it's
strawberry blonde I'm sorry but yeah
strawberry blonde but yeah this bright
hair and so my Mom saw her
and then did the double take back to me
and then realized it was me such was the
change in my face like I everything had
changed and then I had a fascinating
conversation with my doctor because he
was trying to he was calling me to say
well the surgery is coming up yeah they
wanted me to have my tonsils yeah which
is a serious serious thing to do at 21
years ago right right and uh I said I
don't think I need the surgery anymore
and we you know we're having this
conversation he goes why not I go I'm
not he goes yeah but that happens you
know the pain goes away and it'll be
back yeah you know you've waited this
long yeah and it was a sales pitch
it was I I'm looking at this guy going
oh my God it's a sales pitch this is not
about me this is about Revenue I felt it
my bones it was just not right and and
and and then I I said to him how long
did you go to medical school for now you
have to know at 21 years old I looked 18
I was a kid I look young this must have
been the most impetuous like what's this
he goes six years and I go can I just
ask in the six years how much of that
time did you spend studying nutrition
right do you know the answer yeah none
yeah yeah yeah and that is consistent
about as much time as they spend
studying scientific research it's
amazing it is quite stunning and at that
moment I suddenly felt the only way I
could describe it is I felt like I was
on a plane and I just found out the
pilot didn't learn how to land yeah I
have better learn this myself and I I
went in I read everything I could I went
I even finally went to University I
didn't go very long because it was so
painfully slow but I went to go study
archeology why would I study archeology
when I wanted to learn about food
because
I had a very
um interesting moment where I learned
about elephants and elephants um you
know when you when you uh when you put
them in captivity a hundred years ago
they would only live 10 years or so like
it was a very short-lived life and the
Zuki person such stumbled upon uh some
you know uh at that point in time
contemporary science and that said that
elephants in the wild Live seven or
eight years and these guys became very
concerned about their well I'd like to
think they're concerned about their
elephants they're concerned about their
investment and so what did they figure
out and I'm reading this article and the
article talks about the elephant's wild
diet and the elephant's captive diet
and while I I can't look I I I'm a
little bit of a grammar fascist
sometimes I mean I shouldn't be I don't
have the right to be I'm dyslexic and I
I probably don't write to me but when I
spot something and I look at this wild
diet
the elephant doesn't have a wild diet it
doesn't the elephant does not have a
wild diet the elephant has a diet it
does not have a wild one right it might
have a captive one but it doesn't have a
wild one and in that moment I suddenly
realized wait a second now the word diet
has been
um stolen it's been hijacked like many
words get stolen and it what it actually
means is way of life it actually means
way of life the original greek latin
it's way of life it's not it's not
temporary alteration to your current
eating patterns in order to fit into
that outfit for that special occasion
that's not what it means right right and
in that moment I I I realized that in
order to figure out how to and by the
way they took the elephant's wild diet
and they reintroduced it to the
Captivity suddenly the captive elephants
were living 30 40 50 years and at that
point I said what we have to be doing is
looking at our own anthropology our own
archeology our own history right because
food science has been so hijacked and
adulterated that we can't trust it I
felt like the roots of the issue were
not
um going to be sold to us by the food
pyramid people they weren't going to be
sold to us by the food manufacturers the
Department of Agriculture not helpful
right and no and certainly say that it's
it's so I wrote this article and then
about a year or two later oh I read an
article by S Boyd Eaton and he'd written
it in like 1985 and it was it basically
suggested the same thing he was saying
look there's a human diet there is one
you know we have less as a population on
this planet we have less genetic
variants than than the different species
of elephant have from each other we're
very closely related there's a human
diet and then Lauren cordain released
the paleo diet uh um around about that
time and I felt partially robbed and
also Vindicated all at the same time but
that uh that kind of led me to real
passion and purpose the problem was as a
teacher
nobody would pay for that
nobody would pay for me to come and talk
to them about you know anthropological
uh nutrition or what we would Now call
Nutritional anthropology or even food
psychology that weren't interested in
that but they were always interested in
how I built a business and how I and I'd
been involved in Hollywood movies and I
built a like for example this is
fascinating we're doing Hollywood
special effects and creatures and stuff
for the movies and so then the military
through Jamie heinemann from Mythbusters
who used to work at the studio long
before I bought it uh came to us one day
and he said can we build a
hyper-realistic trauma simulation
mannequins for the US Army now I don't
know if you've ever done CPR training
but the dummy you do it on is not real
it's it's not even as real as a shop
mannequin they are now they are so real
that Medics opted out of the training
program because interacting with our
mannequins was too traumatic for them it
was a fascinating really really
fascinating I mean the the they were
simulating IED interaction to use the
vernacular sounds like there's an
opening on the sex robot manufacturer
they approached us the porn industry
they uh we we got a strong approach from
him and we were like not at all not at
all we were we knew there was there was
treasure at the end of that rainbow but
there was consequence I had no way but
uh in the end I would get invited to
speak about business because I had this
most business speakers are either
theoreticians yeah or they've had one
big success in a particular industry or
even they've had two or three successes
in the same industry but I'd had a
success in data capture mobile Computing
Wireless networking then in Hollywood
special effects then in medical
simulation then in military research and
development right and so you're showing
cross plots yeah people are willing to
pay for the nice seats in the plane and
the good fees for business speaking yeah
and so I started doing that in fact I
mentioned earlier I got that call from
Tony Robbins and and that kind of set me
on fire it was like holy I didn't know
how did he come across you do you did
you ever hear of Chet Holmes Chad Holmes
wrote you you want to check out Chad
because you know just because of your
fascination in sales and marketing he
wrote a book called The Ultimate Sales
Machine a phenomenal bestseller and it
turned out he and I met at one point and
he uh he said when did you do my program
I've never done your program he goes but
the way you talk and the way you write
marketing campaigns they're so subtle
and they don't feel like marketing and
they're so converting why why are they
so good if you didn't do my training
program which is a slightly arrogant
question but he was like that and uh
years later we were having dinner one
day and he was he was always very
inquisitive and he asked lots of
questions and he asked me about my
history and I mentioned Kirby
and he goes oh I get it now he used to
work for Charlie Munger and he had
designed all of the marketing campaigns
that we were using at Kirby so I had
been trained in sales and marketing by
Chet Holmes as a kid even though he
never met I see and so he was working
with Tony and um one day uh he had told
Tony about me a few times but I'm I
wasn't a speaker so Tony was never going
to put me on stage but then uh then then
you know weird Confluence of events you
know happened and chat sadly gets very
sick and and and he ends up passing away
and but he always said to me I've given
you this last gift he always told me
that I never knew what the gift was I
never knew but then about 11 days after
he passed away he was scheduled to speak
at a conference in in Fiji with Tony and
I get this phone call would you come and
take Chet's spot uh-huh and I I I I
hadn't been on a stage in three years I
had no business that's like I'm not even
driving go-karts and you want me to go
race Formula One today but I said yes
and I went and and it just Tony and I
hit it off immediately he was so good to
me in every way we we didn't know about
because I've been talking to Tony and
working with him to some degree over the
last I guess it's almost six months two
years something like that but I don't
think we knew that connection when we
met Mexico no I don't I don't think yeah
yeah no but he was he I I he he
immediately I remember flying into Fiji
and I thought if I really rock this I
mean if I really rock it I know it's an
opportunity I could get on the list
they'd call me again yeah by the time
the plane had taxi to the airport I said
screw that that's not big enough
thinking if I really rock this I will
become the list and in effect that
happened Tony and I hit it off
immediately they told me he would only
stay in the room for 15 minutes and uh
it was so interesting he calls me and
he's his team come says Tony wants to
meet you in the hallway uh you know he's
never met you and by the way he's only
going to stay in the room for 15 minutes
when you're on stage if he leaves it's a
good sign he's either going to leave or
he's going to take you off the stage
those are the only options
but he wants to meet in the hallway so I
walk into the hallway and I and I you
know and uh you know he went to Giant
he's big and and he goes how are you
feeling about your presentation
and uh and the truth is they were asking
me to do a presentation on 11 days prep
with flying on somebody else's slides I
don't even usually use slides and and uh
and I said well it's not the ideal
circumstance you know uh and I just want
to be honest yeah and Tony goes well you
could be a lot more confident yeah
and but I remember you know Tony Tony
always said some version of nobody in
the history of calming down has ever
calmed down because somebody told them
to calm down in other words me becoming
Meek was not going to be helpful at that
point so I just said what the hell I
mean I mean oh yeah I go oh I'm plenty
confident look the reason I'm here is
that your other business speakers are
too busy operating their businesses I'm
a proper business owner that's why I
could do this on note of notice so it
might not be exactly the presentation
You're Expecting but it's going to be
fantastic oh yeah oh yeah and then Tony
goes well all right then oh yeah yeah
yeah and uh and and that's better than
the scared rabbit approach it was then
now this leads to kind of a funny little
offsuit here where he goes into his team
and he goes I like this guy I think I
want to introduce him myself anyway
wasn't planning to introduce me because
he didn't want to be near what could be
a train wreck but now he's met me
meanwhile it's mostly a Chinese audience
so the guy who's introducing me is going
to introduce me in Chinese not in
English so they've changed the
translation
and and Sony Tony's like where's where's
his bio where they go we threw it out we
changed we translated to Chinese we
threw it out what do you mean we'll
translate it back well I don't know if
you've played that game very often but
English to Chinese back to English so it
ends up like uh um the bio says you know
Eric's Eric's not really a speaker he's
a he's a business guy he started his
first business and he sold it nine years
later
by the time it gets translated back and
given to Tony Tony walks up on stage and
he goes you guys I just met our our next
speaker out in the hallway I'm so
excited to introduce you to him he
started his first business when he was
only nine years old
and it was he was like oh no but he
stayed in the room for three and a half
hours
and he didn't take me off the stage and
then he booked me for a year and um he
coached me and he was sweet to me and
generous to me in every possible way and
uh that really turned me on and I and
and set me off on the path of I'm gonna
be a professional teacher I'm gonna do
this for a living so okay so fill me in
a bit here on the relationship between
the business speaking and you're
interested in in diet and also let's
let's make a bit of a foray into what
the consequences for you and the broader
consequences have been of learning to
teach and also concentrating on diet
maybe we can close this this session up
with that sure so the the the the short
version is that um I believe that the
single
most valuable professional skill that
exists in the world is communication
um the ability to speak publicly in
front of a camera and audience is
everything anybody can add a zero to
their to their income by learning to
communicate effectively in my opinion so
that was the first big impact for me
when I made that transition it meant
that everything accelerated every
opportunity accelerated every my network
accelerated everything changed when I
decided that I was willing to do that
put myself at risk put myself in front
of an audience or a camera
in the meantime of course I had this
health Focus that was my biggest passion
but I couldn't find a venue for it there
was no there was no economic venue for
that so I kept doing it because I wasn't
in it for the money but I had to do
something for money separately so I kept
teaching but then my clients started
asking me well wait a minute where do
you get all this energy from you don't
do jet lag you're on stage for 15 hours
a day you know you you never look tired
you never get sick what's going on so I
started teaching nutritional principles
to my business clients
and what I was basically teaching them
was an early version of this concept of
the evolution Gap
again this Gap that opens up between our
Innovation and our genetics and and the
food industry has raped and pillaged
that Gap to no end and that's why we
have the prolific uh explosion of type 2
diabetes and obesity and all that stuff
that we have is that we have instances
unbridled it's it's and and the fact
that it's not on the you know if we look
at the Press today if if the Press were
forced
to cover things equally minute minute to
consequence you know equally yeah then
there'd be a sliver on gun crime yeah
and then there'd be a pie chart of about
you know 55 that would be about diabetes
obesity yeah it would be pie chart yeah
yeah meat pie probably but you know so I
started teaching my clients and
ultimately teaching them a concept of
rewilding personal rewilding rather than
sort of the Yellowstone National Park
ecological rewilding this like how do
you take advantage of the unbelievable
things that exist in the modern world
but understand that you're ultimately a
stone age human and that your instincts
are mismatched with your current
environment and and if I started
teaching them this
and um and and I was so excited about it
and they loved it but I would see them
six months later and they would still be
the same yeah yeah so then I got to work
hard for people to change their the
manner in which they eat or live because
they're the same thing then I solve that
problem
and I solve that by developing something
that we call behavioral change Dynamics
and it sounds a little weird so you're a
clinical psychologist and I'm going to
talk to you about psychology but I just
I you know when you grow up in the
household I did you had to become a
practical psychologist it was a survival
thing and I got very good at figuring
out why people do what they do
especially around food so I took this
concept of Behavioral change Dynamics
which is an educational construct that I
use for creating programs but I added it
to nutritional principles and I created
a 90-day program for people on that that
runs them through a week by week
strategically designed process of
neurological change and nutritional
change at perfect intervals and so what
happened was I did it for eight people
and all eight of them got results which
is statistically not likely
um then I did it for another eight
people another eight people and then one
of my clients is a fairly famous author
in America named Paul Sheely and he
wrote me one day he called me and he
goes Eric what have you done to me my
marketing team just set up a webinar
page and the picture on the webinar page
doesn't look anything like me and we
only took it three months ago and that's
how much people change in 90 days but
the the the so he said you know where's
your website I don't have a website it's
not a business it's a hobby I just do it
for my business clients he goes you
better put up a website I'm about to
tell my clients about you we had about
100 clients a year at that point they
had to come to me to buy it it was the
only way there was no website there was
nothing in a week 200 people signed up
and it was like and it's and it's 1500
it's not a light expense and then it
happened again a guy named Collins break
in Vancouver it did the same thing told
his Network 200 people then another guy
named Vision lakyani who's the founder
of Mindvalley who's my digital publisher
um he did it and then he did it for 200
of his employees and then he told his
clients about it and then where can
people find out about this uh
getwildfit.com get well fit get wild get
wild get wildfit.com okay well we'll
definitely put that in the description
make sure you have your people send a
descriptor for the for the we will for
sure for the description of the video
we'll even give them like a a way to do
it like a two-week trial uh you know
we'll we'll see okay okay yeah but the
uh so so then uh he he 1100 people
signed up and we got to a place where
you know now a hundred thousand people
in 130 countries around the world have
done this program a hundred thousand 100
000 people and and you know we have
countless cases of type type 2 diabetes
is a fascinating one we never intended
to do that but it just started happening
and people would call us and go Eric I
used to be diabetic now I'm pre-diabetic
and like that just irritates me remember
I'm a little bit yeah a little a little
bit camera fast right that irritates me
pre-indicates direction plus from a
prescription perspective I would put you
more post-diabetic
which I which which I I I one day I said
that I was talking to Mark Hyman Dr Mark
Hyman and I said no they're post typing
yes absolutely and so funny enough
that's you know you and I spoke about
that book in uh and you introduced me to
Michaela to talk about that book yes so
we have a book coming out that I
co-wrote with a doctor
um about reversing diabetes which was
yeah you know just again closing the
evolution Gap it's like when you
understand why our Cravings put us in a
certain direction and why the food
industry does certain things you can you
can find your freedom yeah anyway I
suddenly this thing that was never about
money that couldn't pay for itself has
been become uh you know the Canadian
government the Canadian I get this
letter can you can you come to Ottawa
please wait yes I can come to Ottawa I'm
standing I I still again I I you know
every now and again the seven-year-old
you looks at your life and goes holy
crap you know like you can imagine what
it was like standing in in Kerner
Studios when I bought the studios and
I'm standing where Pixar was made Star
Wars Photoshop you know and the
seven-year-old of me is going well now
I'm standing on this senate floor
uh the very day that the legalization of
marijuana was ascended to law that day
I'm standing on the senate floor and I'm
getting a medal from from the speaker of
the Senate and it's because of our work
in improving the quality of you the
direct quote was improving lives okay so
how did it come about that you got a
medal for that and what did that signify
and how did they find out and why did
they believe you
um it was a a senator came to a
presentation that I had done apparently
years before in Vancouver and she just
started following my work yeah and she
started following my work and um seeing
what we were doing in the world and uh
you know submitted me for a nomination
for this thing and and what was that it
was uh it was it was called a senate 150
medal they they struck a bunch of these
medals they said um in celebration was
celebration of the 150 yeah and it was
for it was for unsung heroes they said
it's for people that are doing stuff
behind the scenes and and making which
is where things are always done that are
real by the way yeah behind the scenes
because people just go out and do them
it was a huge gift and I have to tell
you that on one side I felt very um I I
don't feel like I go out into the world
seeking any kind of recognition but it
felt good and but more than that it made
me feel responsible I was like well I
have to live up to that yeah yeah you
know I really have to live up to that
and um and you know and and I feel like
I am I'm I you know I this this work
that I'm doing is Mission oriented for
me I I can't name the country at the
moment but I can tell you that a
minister of another country's Parliament
did my program and did very well with it
and then contacted me to see if we could
work
um in their country to help fight their
very serious obesity and diverse
problems great well congratulations man
that's a big deal and it's a special
country because this country doesn't
have food lobbyists or drug lobbyists
which means that we can do clinical
trials there without interference oh oh
oh oh well that's great yeah so fingers
crossed that that'll happen yeah yeah
yeah that's for sure well look this is a
good time and uh and place to bring this
section of our discussion to a close
um I often as you people who are
watching and listening know uh flip to
the Daily wire plus side to do something
more autobiographical but we've kind of
done that here I think what we'll talk
about instead on The Daily wire plus
side is your experience with the hamsa
people which and your experiences in
Africa so if you're interested in that
and you should be I would say go over to
the Daily wire plus side uh so to speak
the dark side you know and you might
want to consider uh sending them some
support at the moment anyways because uh
YouTube is on our case in a big way on
the daily word plus platform you know
they've canceled three of my shows in
the last month and I think are likely to
cancel a few of the ones that I've
recorded in the last week by the way and
so that's not so good and and they're
really on the case so you know on
Shapiro's case and on uh
um Candace uh Candace Owens case and
um and of course Matt Walsh all those
people so uh it's a good time to show
them some support if you're inclined to
do such things so why don't you join us
over there and uh Eric will thank you
very much for talking to me today thank
you all sorts of real pleasure things it
was fun walking through what you've been
up to
um I'm going to be very interested to
watch what happens with you on the diet
politics front because that's you know
if our Legacy Media such as it is had an
ounce of sense there'd be a hell of a
lot more front page headlines about the
fact that everybody in the whole goddamn
West is fat and diabetic and insane
because of the diet that they were
enticed to eat by by Psychopathic
marketers on the department of
agricultural side who were told by the
very bloody Consultants that they hired
that they were going to produce an
epidemic of unparalleled magnitude and
then proceeded to do exactly that for
generations and right and here we are
and let's say this on the other side of
the paywall I'm going to suggest that
had they not done that if we would not
have experienced the pandemic that we
did
yeah well we know that there is almost
no death among people who didn't have
comorbidity and one of the major
morbidities was being obese and it's a
comorbidity with virtually everything
terrible that there is so that wouldn't
surprise me in the least yeah all right
so everyone off to the Daily wire plus
side and thank you again Eric for
speaking to me thanks for having me yeah
fun you bet you bet
[Music]
thank you